# Welcome to My Portfolio! 👋

Hi! I'm Jonatan Schmidlechner, a master's student in computer science. I have a bachelor's degree in computer science with a major in software development and minor in signal processing and machine learning. This GitHub account is my portfolio showcasing various programming projects I've worked on. Below is a quick overview of the projects. Detailed information about each project can be found in its respective repository.

## Featured Projects
- **[Distributed systems - emoji data aggregator](https://github.com/JonatanSchmidlechner/Distributed-emoji-aggregator):** This project is a course project done in Advanced web development: Back end course Spring 2025. Its functionality is nothing special and it does not look that nice, however the focus of the project was to learn about microservice architecture and how to manage the communication between different containerized services. The application contains a simple frontend, two services of which the first one uses a REST API to communicate with the frontend, whereas the other one uses a websocket for real-time communication with the frontend. Additionally there is an emoji generator. The three backend components communicate with each other using apache kafka's messagebroker.
- **[Moduuler (demo) - Kitchen component 3d editing tool](https://github.com/JonatanSchmidlechner/Moduuler-demo):** Moduuler is a 3D editor application. It is intended to be used as a React component installed as an npm package in the parent application. As this project was done for a private company, I only show here a few individual code files, that I was responsible for. This project was done in Spring 2024 as part of the Software project 1 course. **It is by far the most ambitious project I have been part of.** The code files presented here demonstrate my coding skills in Typescript and React as well as some skills using Redux slices. As prior to this project I had no experience in web development, this also demonstrates my ability to learn new technologies fast. This project also demonstrates my knowledge about how to work in a small development team using agile methods.
- **[Tram-car audio classifier](https://github.com/JonatanSchmidlechner/tram-car_audioClassifier):** This project is a machine learning based audio classifier for classifying new audiosamples either as car or tram. This is a smaller project done in a 2 person group in December 2024 for the course Introduction to audio and speech processing. This project demonstrates my basic audio processing knowledge with python as well as machine learning knowledge.
- **[Sisu - Study planning application](https://github.com/JonatanSchmidlechner/Sisu-application):** Sisu is a study planning application with a graphical user interface, implemented in Java. Sisu was done in a 3 person group in Spring 2023 for programming 3 course. Although I was only a first year student at this time (note that programming 3 is normally meant for 2nd year students), I think it still demonstrates object oriented coding skills and group working skills. Further, it's the only relatively big group project done from scratch that I can fully show. For Sisu I was responsible for getting complex data (degrees and their contents) from an external API, creating required objects (degrees, study modules, courses and assessments) and storing them in a data structure.
